From support at mnspoint.com  Mon Jul  3 08:05:47 2017
From: support at mnspoint.com (support at mnspoint.com)
Date: Mon, 03 Jul 2017 18:05:47 +0300
Subject: [Proj] Coming releases of PROJ.4
In-Reply-To: <2E885BB293AF0448A0181138489E9A0EA71C81E1@S000014.PROD.SITAD.DK>
References: <2E885BB293AF0448A0181138489E9A0EA71C81E1@S000014.PROD.SITAD.DK>
Message-ID: <68c3782815109d5ef1ac4ba7573f6cdb@mnspoint.com>

Hello Kristian, 

I strongly suggest you make your own "Proj.4.Whatever" and DO what ever
there, but leave the Proj.4 alone. Proj.4 is a mature project and it
does NOT need changes or lot of updates since it works very well in many
applications and the library is small in size. 

Proj4 is more a mathematical definition for those transformations AND
those are constant by their nature .. NO updates wanted all the time!
UPDATE YOUR application which uses Proj.4 more often .. there is lot of
work to be done I am sure. Leave the library alone! 

All your updates are cosmetic and that is something that changes all the
time. If you like to do cosmetic rewrites then just target those to your
self! We are not interested! We want to keep the library constant and
bug free! 

Those "improvements" you are talking about are unnecessary and just add
huge amounts of rewriting work for people that use the library for some
application. Your rewriting work does not do anything meaningful! You
just want to be cocky and play games with serious software writers
instead of your self doing anything meaningful. The worst kind of person
to have in a team! 

First of all, rule number 1! Interfaces must be kept constant! One just
adds, but never changes or removes (since somebody is using that
already)! That is the reason you usually NEVER touch the headers since
those are the point that should be kept constant .. you touch everything
else first. Now you are doing the contrary. 

Your writing is a clear indication that you are just a terrorist that
wants to destroy the Proj.4 intellectual foundation and ruin everything
built on it! 

Janne. 

>
-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <http://lists.osgeo.org/pipermail/proj/attachments/20170703/0f40f745/attachment.html>

From sebastic at xs4all.nl  Mon Jul  3 08:22:41 2017
From: sebastic at xs4all.nl (Bas Couwenberg)
Date: Mon, 03 Jul 2017 17:22:41 +0200
Subject: [Proj] Coming releases of PROJ.4
In-Reply-To: <68c3782815109d5ef1ac4ba7573f6cdb@mnspoint.com>
References: <2E885BB293AF0448A0181138489E9A0EA71C81E1@S000014.PROD.SITAD.DK>
	<68c3782815109d5ef1ac4ba7573f6cdb@mnspoint.com>
Message-ID: <423963ce33a2759607bdb158e8af10e3@xs4all.nl>

On 2017-07-03 17:05, support at mnspoint.com wrote:
> Your writing is a clear indication that you are just a terrorist that
> wants to destroy the Proj.4 intellectual foundation and ruin everything
> built on it!

If you'd get your way, there would be no contributors to PROJ.4 leaving 
it stale as you'd like to see, but also doom it because it eventually 
will not be supportable any more.

I applaud the efforts by Kristian who makes valuable contributions to 
ensure the future viability of PROJ.4, unlike you who keeps posting 
demotivating rhetoric on this list.

Please maintain your own fork of PROJ.4 for your application so you 
don't get your knickers in a twist every time someone makes a change to 
the project.

This list is better off without your contributions, they don't reflect 
well on you and poison the atmosphere.

Consider this advice my mother raised me with: If you have nothing 
constructive to say, don't say anything at all.

Kind Regards,

Bas


From tobler at geog.ucsb.edu  Mon Jul  3 08:54:51 2017
From: tobler at geog.ucsb.edu (Waldo Tobler)
Date: Mon, 3 Jul 2017 08:54:51 -0700
Subject: [Proj] Coming releases of PROJ.4
In-Reply-To: <68c3782815109d5ef1ac4ba7573f6cdb@mnspoint.com>
References: <2E885BB293AF0448A0181138489E9A0EA71C81E1@S000014.PROD.SITAD.DK>
	<68c3782815109d5ef1ac4ba7573f6cdb@mnspoint.com>
Message-ID: <CAM_SWQ=RDS5Bb79oiiM9Hy_pUF5mZFYAXwiZnbOYcQvs=z29Ow@mail.gmail.com>

Add the new Tobler-Mercartor projection to the invetory
Thanks

On Mon, Jul 3, 2017 at 8:05 AM, <support at mnspoint.com> wrote:

> Hello Kristian,
>
> I strongly suggest you make your own "Proj.4.Whatever" and DO what ever
> there, but leave the Proj.4 alone. Proj.4 is a mature project and it does
> NOT need changes or lot of updates since it works very well in many
> applications and the library is small in size.
>
> Proj4 is more a mathematical definition for those transformations AND
> those are constant by their nature .. NO updates wanted all the time!
> UPDATE YOUR application which uses Proj.4 more often .. there is lot of
> work to be done I am sure. Leave the library alone!
>
> All your updates are cosmetic and that is something that changes all the
> time. If you like to do cosmetic rewrites then just target those to your
> self! We are not interested! We want to keep the library constant and bug
> free!
>
> Those "improvements" you are talking about are unnecessary and just add
> huge amounts of rewriting work for people that use the library for some
> application. Your rewriting work does not do anything meaningful! You just
> want to be cocky and play games with serious software writers instead of
> your self doing anything meaningful. The worst kind of person to have in a
> team!
>
> First of all, rule number 1! Interfaces must be kept constant! One just
> adds, but never changes or removes (since somebody is using that already)!
> That is the reason you usually NEVER touch the headers since those are the
> point that should be kept constant .. you touch everything else first. Now
> you are doing the contrary.
>
> Your writing is a clear indication that you are just a terrorist that
> wants to destroy the Proj.4 intellectual foundation and ruin everything
> built on it!
>
>
> Janne.
>
>
>
>
>
>
> _______________________________________________
> Proj mailing list
> Proj at lists.maptools.org
> http://lists.maptools.org/mailman/listinfo/proj
>
-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <http://lists.osgeo.org/pipermail/proj/attachments/20170703/90a10d7c/attachment.html>

From knudsen.thomas at gmail.com  Mon Jul  3 09:42:30 2017
From: knudsen.thomas at gmail.com (Thomas Knudsen)
Date: Mon, 3 Jul 2017 18:42:30 +0200
Subject: [Proj] Coming releases of PROJ.4
In-Reply-To: <CAM_SWQ=RDS5Bb79oiiM9Hy_pUF5mZFYAXwiZnbOYcQvs=z29Ow@mail.gmail.com>
References: <2E885BB293AF0448A0181138489E9A0EA71C81E1@S000014.PROD.SITAD.DK>
	<68c3782815109d5ef1ac4ba7573f6cdb@mnspoint.com>
	<CAM_SWQ=RDS5Bb79oiiM9Hy_pUF5mZFYAXwiZnbOYcQvs=z29Ow@mail.gmail.com>
Message-ID: <CAH0YoEPsf5uodJbGDi+wZ=kKKT-MXE5Mig8w_1gM8xGPqUQ_9Q@mail.gmail.com>

Waldo,

I'm starting a new thread on the mailing list for discussing the
Tobler-Mercator. Let us continue the discussion on that thread, and keep
this one close to the subject of release process and versioning?

/Thomas


2017-07-03 17:54 GMT+02:00 Waldo Tobler <tobler at geog.ucsb.edu>:

> Add the new Tobler-Mercartor projection to the invetory
> Thanks
>
-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <http://lists.osgeo.org/pipermail/proj/attachments/20170703/0170cdd1/attachment.html>

From knudsen.thomas at gmail.com  Mon Jul  3 09:53:18 2017
From: knudsen.thomas at gmail.com (Thomas Knudsen)
Date: Mon, 3 Jul 2017 18:53:18 +0200
Subject: [Proj] Tobler-Mercator
Message-ID: <CAH0YoEObXboqtg2puXFD_HzfDY69Y54FshesMkr=04Ow5U=Spg@mail.gmail.com>

Waldo Tobler suggested in a recent message to add the Tobler-Mercator to
PROJ.4.

Googling for Tobler-Mercator yields a few results from Mike Bostick's blog
and github Gist.

It does not seem to be hard at all to implement, but it would be very
useful to have a record here on the mailing list of the intention behind
(which would support the question of "why would we want to support this"?),
some references to documentation material/publications.

Any suggestions, anyone/Waldo?

/Thomas
-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <http://lists.osgeo.org/pipermail/proj/attachments/20170703/28659d2a/attachment.html>

From Mikael.Rittri at carmenta.com  Mon Jul 10 00:16:49 2017
From: Mikael.Rittri at carmenta.com (Mikael Rittri)
Date: Mon, 10 Jul 2017 07:16:49 +0000
Subject: [Proj] Coming releases of PROJ.4
In-Reply-To: <423963ce33a2759607bdb158e8af10e3@xs4all.nl>
References: <2E885BB293AF0448A0181138489E9A0EA71C81E1@S000014.PROD.SITAD.DK>
	<68c3782815109d5ef1ac4ba7573f6cdb@mnspoint.com>,
	<423963ce33a2759607bdb158e8af10e3@xs4all.nl>
Message-ID: <1DE320E1-49CA-49E9-B61B-46E5266B6203@carmenta.com>

I was going to say that when people spend their time and skill developing valuable stuff and let others use it for free, then they surely deserve praise and gratitude, especially from us commercial users. But then Bas said it better: I fully agree.

Another thing: I don't quite see why the next major release of Proj.4 shouldn't simply be called Proj.5 (unless that is already taken by something else). Well, I understand that the 4 has somehow metamorphosed from a version number to a part of the software name, but isn't that just because "Proj" by itself is such a common term? In which case Proj.5 should be as distinctive as Proj.4.  

Best regards,

Mikael Rittri
Carmenta
Sweden
http://www.carmenta.com




From kreve at sdfe.dk  Mon Jul 10 01:59:31 2017
From: kreve at sdfe.dk (Kristian Evers)
Date: Mon, 10 Jul 2017 08:59:31 +0000
Subject: [Proj] Coming releases of PROJ.4
In-Reply-To: <1DE320E1-49CA-49E9-B61B-46E5266B6203@carmenta.com>
References: <2E885BB293AF0448A0181138489E9A0EA71C81E1@S000014.PROD.SITAD.DK>
	<68c3782815109d5ef1ac4ba7573f6cdb@mnspoint.com>,
	<423963ce33a2759607bdb158e8af10e3@xs4all.nl>
	<1DE320E1-49CA-49E9-B61B-46E5266B6203@carmenta.com>
Message-ID: <2E885BB293AF0448A0181138489E9A0EA7203104@S000014.PROD.SITAD.DK>

First off, Bas and Mikael, thanks for the encouraging words!

Regarding the version number of the next release, my suggestion of jumping to version 10.0.0 should mostly be seen as a communication aid. I'll try to explain why. 

Today we have PROJ.4 version 4.9.3. The next version introduces radically improved geodetic capabilities and a new and more coherent API.  Using 4.10.0 as the next version number would be just fine, and I wouldn't object to that. BUT, to me there's more at play here. The PROJ.4 library existed on life-support for a number of years with very little activity and years between releases. That is all changed now, especially thanks to Howard stepping up and taking on the role of maintainer a few years back. Since then a lot has happened and I think it would be great to show that to the world by "rebranding" the library with a change in version number. A simple change to 4.10.0 would probably be "just another version" to most users of the library, whereas a release of PROJ.4 version 10.0.0 should get the attention of the developers that rely on PROJ.4. Once we have their attention we can explain to them that the library is very much alive, that we've have made a bunch of cool stuff over the past year and let them know what is on schedule for the next couple of years. 

So yes, we could just continue on the path we are already on but why not use this opportunity to highlight that the project has been revitalized after a long period of stagnation?

Regarding calling the next major release PROJ.5. I don't like the idea of changing the name of the project when what should be changed is the version number. The problem is that today the project name and version number is tightly coupled. That's not ideal. My suggestion of going to version 10.0.0 fixes that, although at the cost of a very large jump in version numbers. It has worked for another rather big and important piece of software, so surely it can work for PROJ.4 as well! An added benefit is that we get the full use of all three levels in the version number in the future which I think will make it easier to release smaller changes like bug fixes.

/Kristian

-----Oprindelig meddelelse-----
Fra: proj-bounces at lists.maptools.org [mailto:proj-bounces at lists.maptools.org] På vegne af Mikael Rittri
Sendt: 10. juli 2017 09:17
Til: PROJ.4 and general Projections Discussions
Emne: Re: [Proj] Coming releases of PROJ.4

I was going to say that when people spend their time and skill developing valuable stuff and let others use it for free, then they surely deserve praise and gratitude, especially from us commercial users. But then Bas said it better: I fully agree.

Another thing: I don't quite see why the next major release of Proj.4 shouldn't simply be called Proj.5 (unless that is already taken by something else). Well, I understand that the 4 has somehow metamorphosed from a version number to a part of the software name, but isn't that just because "Proj" by itself is such a common term? In which case Proj.5 should be as distinctive as Proj.4.  

Best regards,

Mikael Rittri
Carmenta
Sweden
http://www.carmenta.com


_______________________________________________
Proj mailing list
Proj at lists.maptools.org
http://lists.maptools.org/mailman/listinfo/proj


From kreve at sdfe.dk  Mon Jul 10 02:09:40 2017
From: kreve at sdfe.dk (Kristian Evers)
Date: Mon, 10 Jul 2017 09:09:40 +0000
Subject: [Proj] GitHub "project" for the next release
Message-ID: <2E885BB293AF0448A0181138489E9A0EA72031B5@S000014.PROD.SITAD.DK>

All,

I've set up a project on GitHub in an effort to organize the work that needs to be done before the next release. A GitHub project is nothing fancy, it's just a Kanban-board of already existing tickets from the issue tracker. Find it at:

       https://github.com/OSGeo/proj.4/projects/1

If you would like to contribute this is a good place to start. If there is something you would like to see fixed, added or changed in the next version now is the time to say so. Please use the GitHub issue tracker for that, either by adding new tickets or leaving a comment in existing ones you would like to get prioritized. I'll make sure to add them to the relevant list in the GitHub project.

/Kristian
-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <http://lists.osgeo.org/pipermail/proj/attachments/20170710/fcb43616/attachment.html>

From howard at hobu.co  Mon Jul 10 19:10:19 2017
From: howard at hobu.co (Howard Butler)
Date: Mon, 10 Jul 2017 21:10:19 -0500
Subject: [Proj] Coming releases of PROJ.4
In-Reply-To: <2E885BB293AF0448A0181138489E9A0EA7203104@S000014.PROD.SITAD.DK>
References: <2E885BB293AF0448A0181138489E9A0EA71C81E1@S000014.PROD.SITAD.DK>
	<68c3782815109d5ef1ac4ba7573f6cdb@mnspoint.com>
	<423963ce33a2759607bdb158e8af10e3@xs4all.nl>
	<1DE320E1-49CA-49E9-B61B-46E5266B6203@carmenta.com>
	<2E885BB293AF0448A0181138489E9A0EA7203104@S000014.PROD.SITAD.DK>
Message-ID: <A9A87AD2-61A8-48F1-923C-00414362314D@hobu.co>


> On Jul 10, 2017, at 3:59 AM, Kristian Evers <kreve at sdfe.dk> wrote:

> A simple change to 4.10.0 would probably be "just another version" to most users of the library, whereas a release of PROJ.4 version 10.0.0 should get the attention of the developers that rely on PROJ.4. Once we have their attention we can explain to them that the library is very much alive, that we've have made a bunch of cool stuff over the past year and let them know what is on schedule for the next couple of years. 

That same effect would happen if the name were Proj.4 5.0.0, and the name increment wouldn't so strongly signal that things are drastically different in a way most people will care about. The improvements, API stabilization, and housekeeping is exciting, but people like libraries in niches such as Proj.4's to be as boring as possible. None of the work you or Thomas has done disrupts things, and it will certainly help to keep the train running on time. This time the ride includes some new clean API carpets and much less macro vomit, so cheers for that!

I think Frank never ++'d the version to 5 because of the .4 nomenclature and the fork's relationship to the original, but only we know that anyway. The fork has supplanted the original, naming things is hard, and version numbers are cheap, as they say.

> So yes, we could just continue on the path we are already on but why not use this opportunity to highlight that the project has been revitalized after a long period of stagnation?

We will do that with release notes. Anyone paying attention to this list or searching for things over the web is going to find the recent activity too. The website is a clear indication that stuff has been improving (and it is starting to look really nice too!).

The week before FOSS4G, I am making a trip to Woods Hole to interview Gerald Evenden's wife, Phyllis, and a few of his past colleagues at USGS for some retrospective about how he ended up writing a coordinate system library in the 1980s/90s that ended up underpinning a significant portion of the geospatial software in use today. It's a story that needs to be told, and one for which Gerald deserves more credit. Frank is obviously in the story here too, but PROJ was the starting point. 

Gerald's son also mentioned finding some latex files, which I am hoping will be useful material to backfill the website. There might also be some working notes and the like. I will report on all of it at my FOSS4G talk, so please catch it if you can.

See you in Boston!

Howard



From pbander at cavtel.net  Mon Jul 10 19:34:34 2017
From: pbander at cavtel.net (pbander at cavtel.net)
Date: Mon, 10 Jul 2017 21:34:34 -0500
Subject: [Proj] Gerald I Evenden OBIT
Message-ID: <20170710223434.YXAMY.16912.root@pamxwww07-z01>

- Hi Everyone,
I do not know if everyone on this list knew Gerald I Evenden, but if you were wondering about his absence on the list, it is because he passed away last year. Here is a link for you:
https://www.ccgfuneralhome.com/obit/gerald-i.-evenden

Take Care,
Paul B. Anderson


From kreve at sdfe.dk  Tue Jul 11 00:47:44 2017
From: kreve at sdfe.dk (Kristian Evers)
Date: Tue, 11 Jul 2017 07:47:44 +0000
Subject: [Proj] Coming releases of PROJ.4
In-Reply-To: <A9A87AD2-61A8-48F1-923C-00414362314D@hobu.co>
References: <2E885BB293AF0448A0181138489E9A0EA71C81E1@S000014.PROD.SITAD.DK>
	<68c3782815109d5ef1ac4ba7573f6cdb@mnspoint.com>
	<423963ce33a2759607bdb158e8af10e3@xs4all.nl>
	<1DE320E1-49CA-49E9-B61B-46E5266B6203@carmenta.com>
	<2E885BB293AF0448A0181138489E9A0EA7203104@S000014.PROD.SITAD.DK>
	<A9A87AD2-61A8-48F1-923C-00414362314D@hobu.co>
Message-ID: <2E885BB293AF0448A0181138489E9A0EA7205760@S000014.PROD.SITAD.DK>

> That same effect would happen if the name were Proj.4 5.0.0

Sure. And as I said, I don't feel too strongly about going for 10.0.0. However, I do like the way that PROJ.4 10.0.0 has a 4.10.0 ring to it, honoring the tradition of the 4.x versioning scheme and giving the project a less rigid version numbering scheme that fit the semantic versioning model. But I am also happy to go with 4.10.0 or even 5.0.0 for that matter. I'll leave the decision to you Howard.

> See you in Boston!

Unfortunately not. I am however going to the QGIS user conference in Denmark in the beginning of august. I will be giving a talk on PROJ.4 and the geodetic capabilities that has been introduced to the codebase lately [0]. If anyone from the list is going It'd be great to  grab a coffee or beer during the event.

/Kristian

[0] https://qgis2017.files.wordpress.com/2017/04/program-details.pdf

-----Oprindelig meddelelse-----
Fra: proj-bounces at lists.maptools.org [mailto:proj-bounces at lists.maptools.org] På vegne af Howard Butler
Sendt: 11. juli 2017 04:10
Til: PROJ.4 and general Projections Discussions <proj at lists.maptools.org>
Emne: Re: [Proj] Coming releases of PROJ.4


> On Jul 10, 2017, at 3:59 AM, Kristian Evers <kreve at sdfe.dk> wrote:

> A simple change to 4.10.0 would probably be "just another version" to most users of the library, whereas a release of PROJ.4 version 10.0.0 should get the attention of the developers that rely on PROJ.4. Once we have their attention we can explain to them that the library is very much alive, that we've have made a bunch of cool stuff over the past year and let them know what is on schedule for the next couple of years. 

That same effect would happen if the name were Proj.4 5.0.0, and the name increment wouldn't so strongly signal that things are drastically different in a way most people will care about. The improvements, API stabilization, and housekeeping is exciting, but people like libraries in niches such as Proj.4's to be as boring as possible. None of the work you or Thomas has done disrupts things, and it will certainly help to keep the train running on time. This time the ride includes some new clean API carpets and much less macro vomit, so cheers for that!

I think Frank never ++'d the version to 5 because of the .4 nomenclature and the fork's relationship to the original, but only we know that anyway. The fork has supplanted the original, naming things is hard, and version numbers are cheap, as they say.

> So yes, we could just continue on the path we are already on but why not use this opportunity to highlight that the project has been revitalized after a long period of stagnation?

We will do that with release notes. Anyone paying attention to this list or searching for things over the web is going to find the recent activity too. The website is a clear indication that stuff has been improving (and it is starting to look really nice too!).

The week before FOSS4G, I am making a trip to Woods Hole to interview Gerald Evenden's wife, Phyllis, and a few of his past colleagues at USGS for some retrospective about how he ended up writing a coordinate system library in the 1980s/90s that ended up underpinning a significant portion of the geospatial software in use today. It's a story that needs to be told, and one for which Gerald deserves more credit. Frank is obviously in the story here too, but PROJ was the starting point. 

Gerald's son also mentioned finding some latex files, which I am hoping will be useful material to backfill the website. There might also be some working notes and the like. I will report on all of it at my FOSS4G talk, so please catch it if you can.

See you in Boston!

Howard

_______________________________________________
Proj mailing list
Proj at lists.maptools.org
http://lists.maptools.org/mailman/listinfo/proj


